========
ovs-test
========

Synopsis
========

**ovs-test** -s *port*

**ovs-test** -c *server1* *server2* [**-b** *targetbandwidth*] [**-i** *testinterval*] [**-d**]
  [**-l** *vlantag*] [**-t** *tunnelmodes*]

Description
===========

The :program:`ovs-test` program may be used to check for problems sending
802.1Q or GRE traffic that Open vSwitch may uncover. These problems, for
example, can occur when Open vSwitch is used to send 802.1Q traffic through
physical interfaces running certain drivers of certain Linux kernel versions.
To run a test, configure IP addresses on `server1` and `server2` for interfaces
you intended to test. These interfaces could also be already configured OVS
bridges that have a physical interface attached to them. Then, on one of the
nodes, run :program:`ovs-test` in server mode and on the other node run it in
client mode. The client will connect to :program:`ovs-test` server and schedule
tests between both of them. The :program:`ovs-test` client will perform UDP and
TCP tests.

UDP tests can report packet loss and achieved bandwidth for various datagram
sizes. By default target bandwidth for UDP tests is 1Mbit/s.

TCP tests report only achieved bandwidth, because kernel TCP stack takes care
of flow control and packet loss. TCP tests are essential to detect potential
TSO related issues.

To determine whether Open vSwitch is encountering any problems, the user must
compare packet loss and achieved bandwidth in a setup where traffic is being
directly sent and in one where it is not. If in the 802.1Q or L3 tunneled tests
both :program:`ovs-test` processes are unable to communicate or the achieved
bandwidth is much lower compared to direct setup, then, most likely, Open
vSwitch has encountered a pre-existing kernel or driver bug.

Some examples of the types of problems that may be encountered are:

- When NICs use VLAN stripping on receive they must pass a pointer to a
  `vlan_group` when reporting the stripped tag to the networking core. If no
  `vlan_group` is in use then some drivers just drop the extracted tag.
  Drivers are supposed to only enable stripping if a `vlan_group` is registered
  but not all of them do that.

- On receive, some drivers handle priority tagged packets specially and don't
  pass the tag onto the network stack at all, so Open vSwitch never has a
  chance to see it.

- Some drivers size their receive buffers based on whether a `vlan_group` is
  enabled, meaning that a maximum size packet with a VLAN tag will not fit if
  no `vlan_group` is configured.

- On transmit, some drivers expect that VLAN acceleration will be used if it is
  available, which can only be done if a `vlan_group` is configured. In these
  cases, the driver may fail to parse the packet and correctly setup checksum
  offloading or TSO.

Client Mode
  An :program:`ovs-test` client will connect to two :program:`ovs-test` servers
  and will ask them to exchange test traffic. It is also possible to spawn an
  :program:`ovs-test` server automatically from the client.

Server Mode
  To conduct tests, two :program:`ovs-test` servers must be running on two
  different hosts where the client can connect. The actual test traffic is
  exchanged only between both :program:`ovs-test` servers. It is recommended
  that both servers have their IP addresses in the same subnet, otherwise one
  would have to make sure that routing is set up correctly.

Options
=======

.. program:: ovs-test

.. option:: -s <port>, --server <port>

    Run in server mode and wait for the client to establish XML RPC Control
    Connection on this TCP port. It is recommended to have `ethtool(8)`
    installed on the server so that it could retrieve information about the NIC
    driver.

.. option:: -c <server1> <server2>, --client <server1> <server2>

    Run in client mode and schedule tests between `server1` and `server2`,
    where each server must be given in the following format::

        OuterIP[:OuterPort],InnerIP[/Mask][:InnerPort].

    The `OuterIP` must be already assigned to the physical interface which is
    going to be tested. This is the IP address where client will try to
    establish XML RPC connection. If `OuterIP` is 127.0.0.1 then client will
    automatically spawn a local instance of :program:`ovs-test` server.
    OuterPort is TCP port where server is listening for incoming XML/RPC
    control connections to schedule tests (by default it is 15531). The
    :program:`ovs-test` will automatically assign `InnerIP[/Mask]` to the
    interfaces that will be created on the fly for testing purposes. It is
    important that `InnerIP[/Mask]` does not interfere with already existing IP
    addresses on both :program:`ovs-test` servers and client. InnerPort is port
    which will be used by server to listen for test traffic that will be
    encapsulated (by default it is 15532).

.. option:: -b <targetbandwidth>, --bandwidth <targetbandwidth>

    Target bandwidth for UDP tests. The targetbandwidth must be given in bits
    per second. It is possible to use postfix `M` or `K` to alter the target
    bandwidth magnitude.

.. option:: -i <testinterval>, --interval <testinterval>

    How long each test should run. By default 5 seconds.

.. option:: -h, --help

    Prints a brief help message to the console.

.. option:: -V, --version

    Prints version information to the console.

The following test modes are supported by :program:`ovs-test`. It is possible
to combine multiple of them in a single :program:`ovs-test` invocation.

.. option:: -d, --direct

    Perform direct tests between both OuterIP addresses. These tests could be
    used as a reference to compare 802.1Q or L3 tunneling test results.

.. option:: -l <vlantag>, --vlan-tag <vlantag>

    Perform 802.1Q tests between both servers. These tests will create a
    temporary OVS bridge, if necessary, and attach a VLAN tagged port to
    it for testing purposes.

.. option:: -t <tunnelmodes>, --tunnel-modes <tunnelmodes>

    Perform L3 tunneling tests. The given argument is a comma sepa‚Äê rated
    string that specifies all the L3 tunnel modes that should be tested (e.g.
    gre). The L3 tunnels are terminated on interface that has the OuterIP
    address assigned.

Examples
========

On host 1.2.3.4 start :program:`ovs-test` in server mode::

    ovs-test -s 15531

On host 1.2.3.5 start :program:`ovs-test` in client mode and do direct, VLAN
and GRE tests between both nodes::

    ovs-test -c 127.0.0.1,1.1.1.1/30 1.2.3.4,1.1.1.2/30 -d -l 123 -t
    gre

See Also
========

`ovs-vswitchd(8)`, `ovs-ofctl(8)`, `ovs-vsctl(8)`, :program:`ovs-vlan-test`,
`ethtool(8)`, `uname(1)`
