docs/distnocache.md, before:

# Distributed NoCache 

- Copy from nocache 
- See [important notes](./netreach-v4-lsm.md) in netreach-v4-lsm.md
- See [common implementation details](./distfarreach.md) in distfarreach.md
+ NOTE: we avoid dependency on ingress port; see details in [implementation log after/during DistFarReach](netreach-v4-lsm.md)

## Overview

## Implementation log

+ Implement DistNoCache
	* Copy nocache to distnocache
	* See [distfarrech.md](./distfarreach.md) for changes which are synced to DistNoCache
	* Normal request/response
		- For PUT/DELREQ
			+ Add packet type of DISTNOCACHE_PUT/DELREQ_SPINE (ONLY packet type enumeration) (files: tofino-*/main.p4, tofino-*/common.py, tofino-*/p4src/parser.p4, packet_format.h)
			+ Spine switch converts PUT/DELREQ as DISTNOCACHE_PUT/DELREQ_SPINE to server-leaf (files: tofino-spine/p4src/ingress_mat.p4, tofino-spine/configure/table_configure.py)
			+ Server-leaf switch converts DISTNOCACHE_PUT/DELREQ_SPINE as PUT/DELREQ to server (files: tofino-leaf/p4src/ingress_mat.p4, tofino-leaf/configure/table_configure.py)

## Run

- Hardware configure
	+ Deprecated: DPDK
		* Follow [tech_report](./tech_report.md) to confiure dpdk
	+ Configure after each login
		* `source configure_client.sh`: configure NIC ipv4 address, arp table, UDP rcvbuf size, and openfd limitation
		* `source configure_server.sh`: configure NIC ipv4 address, arp table, UDP rcvbuf size, and openfd limitation
		* `sudo bash configure_switchos.sh`: configure UDP rcvbuf size
	+ Max # of open files
		* `sudo vim /etc/security/limits.conf` to set hard and soft limits on maximum # of open files
		* logout and re-login
		* `ulimit -n number` to set soft # of open files
- Prepare synthetic Zipf workload for loading, warmup, and transaction phase
	+ Modify synthetic-generator/common.py to configure max_key, max_hotkey, and query_num
		+ Update config.ini to configure correct workload name
	+ `python gen_kv.sh` to generate workload for loading phase
		+ `./split_workload load linenum` -> workloada-load-{split_num}/*-*.out
	+ `python gen_warmupkv.sh` to generate workload for warmup phase
	+ `python gen_queries_zipf.sh` to generate Zipf workload for transaction phase
		+ `./split_workload run linenum` -> workloada-run-{server_num}/*.out
- Prepare YCSB workload for loading or transaction phase
	+ For example:
	+ `./bin/ycsb.sh load basic -P workloads/workloada -P netbuffer.dat > workloada-load.out`
	+ `./bin/ycsb.sh run basic -P workloads/workloada -P netbuffer.dat > workloada-run.out`
	+ `./split_workload load linenum` -> workloada-load-{split_num}/\*-\*.out
	+ `./split_workload run linenum` -> workloada-run-{server_num}/\*.out
- Change partition method (hash/range partition)
	+ RANGE_SUPPORT in tofino-*/netbufferv4.p4
	+ USE_HASH/RANGE in helper.h
	+ RANGE_SUPPORT in tofino-*/common.py
- Local loading phase
	- `./loader` to launch loaders in end host
	- If using ycsb, after ycsb loading phase, run `./loadfinish_client` in each physical server
- Warmup/Transaciton phase
	- Spine switch (bf3/bf2; we use bf3 now) and leaf switch (bf1)
		- Run `cd tofino`
		+ Run `su` to enter root account
		+ Run `bash compile.sh` to compile p4 into binary code
		+ Run `bash start_switch.sh` to launch Tofino
	- Launch two switchoses (in spine or leaf switch) in local control plane of Tofino
		+ Create a new terminal and run `bash configure.sh` to configure data plane
	- Launch servers in end host
		+ `./server server_physical_idx`
		+ NOTE: to close server, use `sudo kill -15` to send SIGKILL
	- Launch clients in end host
		- Transaction phase: `./remote_client client_physical_idx`
- Server rotation for static workload
	- Use config.ini.rotation-switch-switchos-loading-warmupclient
		+ Start switch and configure data plane
		+ Start clients and servers for loading phase
	- Use config.ini.rotation-transaction
		+ Start clients and servers for transaction phase (repeat 127 times)
		+ Example of 128 server threads
			* 1 server physical num + 1 server total logical num
				- (1) set server0.server_logical_idxes as bottleneck server logical index in config,ini
				- (2) launch bottleneck server thread in server0
				- (3) Run `./remote_client 1` in client 1
				- (4) Run `./remote_client 0` in client 0
				- (5) Record client0's server rotation data of all physical clients into result.out
			* 2 server physical num + 2 server total logical num
				- (1) set server0.server_logical_idxes as bottleneck server logical index in config.ini
				- (2) Change server1.server_logical_idxes (not equal to server0.server_logical_idxes), e.g., from 0 to 1, in config.ini
				- (3) Run `bash test_server_rotation.sh` in client0
				- (4) Record client0's server rotation data of all physical clients into result.out
				- (5) Go back to step (1) until repeating 127 times
	- IMPORTANT: try different # of client threads to sature servers
		+ NOTE: more client threads does not mean better throughput, as client threads have CPU contention overhead
		+ We MUST try different # of client threads to get the best runtime thpt improvement
- Utils scripts
	- Help to update config.ini
		+ gen_logical_idxes: generate server logical indexes from startidx to endidx
	- Help to generate throughput result files
		+ sum_tworows_for_bottleneckserver.py: sum over per-server pktcnts of two clients to find bottleneck partition
		+ sum_twofiles.py: sum over per-server results to get aggregate statistics (NOTE: the two files must have the same content format)
		+ Deprecated (covered by client0.rotationdataserver): gen_rotation_onerow_result.py: generate one row of rotation throughput result files by summing over per-client rotation result line 
	- Analyze throughput result files: dynamic/static/rotation_calculate_thpt.py
	- sync_file.sh: sync one file (filepath relateive to netreach-v4-lsm/) to all other machines
	- ../sync.sh: sync entire netreach-v4-lsm directory to other machines (NOTE: old directory of other machines will be deleted first)

## Simple test

- NOTE: set switch_kv_bucket_num, KV_BUCKET_COUNT, CM_BUCKET_COUNT, HH_THRESHOLD, SEQ_BUCKET_COUNT as 1 before test
- Test cases of normal operations: see directory of "testcases/normal"
	+ Case 1: single read (GETREQ arrives at server)
	+ Case 2: single write (PUTREQ arrives at server)
	+ Case 3: single delete (DELREQ arrives at server)
	+ Case 4: single load (LOADREQ arrives at server)
	+ Case 5: single scan (SCANREQ_SPLIT arrives at server)
- NOTE: no testcases for cache population/eviction/hit and crash-consistent snapshot

## Deprecated staff

+ DEPRECATED design for cache population/eviction in DistFarReach
	* NOTE: DistFarReach triggers cache population by servers -> key of CACHE_POP must NOT be cached -> key MUST be cached at most ONCE and hence in at most ONE switch
	* NOTE: to keep stateless controller, controller sends CACHE_POP_ACK to server only if receive CACHE_POP_ACK from spine/leaf, which means that some switchos.popworker has performed cache population/eviction for the key
		- TODO: server sends CACNE_POP to controller by server.popclient
			+ NOTE: wait time for CACHE_POP_ACK in distributed scenario becomes larger than single-switch -> using server.popclient can avoid from affecting server.worker performance for normal requests
			+ TODO: Now we still use server.worker.popclient instead of server.popclient as cache eviction is rare compared with normal requests
	* controller.popserver receives CACHE_POP from server.popclient
		- controller.popserver calculates logical spineswitchidx based on the key to find physical spine switch
			+ NOTE: as we only have one physical spine switch, we validate the logical spineswitchidx
		- TODO: controller.popserver.popclient_for_spine forwards CACHE_POP to switchos.popserver of corresponding spine switch
		- TODO: controller.popserver.popclient_for_spine waits for CACHE_POP_ACK / CACHE_POP_FULL_ACK
		- TODO: If receive CACHE_POP_ACK from spine switch, controller.popserver forwards CACHE_POP_ACK to server.popclient, and waits for next CACHE_POP from server.popclient
		- If receive CACHE_POP_FULL_ACK from spine switch
			+ controller.popserver calculates logical leafswitchidx based on the key to find physical server-leaf
				* NOTE: as we only have one physical leaf switch, we validate the logical leafswitchidx
			+ TODO: controller.popserver.popclient sends CACHE_POP to switchos.popserver of corresponding phyiscal leaf
			+ TODO: controller.popserver.popclient waits for CACHE_POP_ACK / CACHE_POP_FULL_ACK
			+ TODO: If receive CACHE_POP_ACK from leaf switch, controller.popserver forwards CACHE_POP_ACK to server.popclient, and waits for next CACHE_POP from server.popclient
			+ If receive CACHE_POP_FULL_ACK from leaf switch
				* NOTE: we do NOT need to find global victim by CACHE_POP_GETVICTIMs; instead, we still use sampling to reduce cache pop latency
				* TODO: controller.popserver.popclient samples one switch from spine/leaf and sends CACHE_POP_FULL w/ new key to sampled switch
				* TODO: controller receives CACHE_POP_ACK from sampled switch, and forwards it to server.popclient
	* For each physical spine/leaf switchos, after receiving CACHE_POP from controller.popserver.popclient
		- TODO: switchos.popserver checks inswitch cache size first
			+ TODO: Maintain a mutex lock for switchos_cached_empty_index
			+ TODO: If the current switch is not full, switchos.popserver sends CACHE_POP_ACK to controller.popserver.popclient, and pass CACHE_POP w/ new key to switchos.popworker for cache population
			+ TODO: If the current switch is full, switchos.popserver sends CACHE_POP_FULL_ACK to controller.popserver.popclient, yet NOT pass CACHE_POP w/ new key to switchos.popworker for cache population
	* For each physical spine/leaf switchos, after receiving CACHE_POP_FULL from controller.popserver.popclient
		- TODO: switchos.popserver directly sends CACHE_POP_ACK w/ new key to controller.popserver.popclient, and pass CACHE_POP_FULL w/ new key to switchos.popworker for cache eviction
		- TODO: NOTE: CACHE_POP_FULL is inherited from CACHE_POP
		- TODO: NOTE: switchos_cached_empty_index must be full
+ DEPRECATED implementation of cache population/eviction in DistFarReach
	+ TODO: controller.popsever.popclient_for_spine forwards CACHE_POP to spine.switchos.popserver and waits for CACHE_POP/_FULL_ACK (files: controller.c)
		* NOTE: controller needs to communiate with both spine/leaf switchos -> need two sets of global variables; while reflector/switchos can update exclusive global variables based on its role (spine or leaf)
		* TODO: Add packet type of CACHE_POP_FULL_ACK (files: tofino-*/main.p4, tofino-*/common,py, tofino-*/p4src/parser.p4, packet_format.*, common_impl.h)
	+ spine/leafswitchos.popserver processes CACHE_POP from controller.popserver.popclient_for_spine/leaf
		* TODO: Add mutex lock for inswitch cache metadata (writer: switchos.popworker; reader: switchos.popsever/snapshotserver) (files: switchos.c)
		* TODO: switchos.popserver gets pipeidx based on role (spineswitchos -> leafswitch.pipeidx; leafswitchos -> server.pipeidx)
		* TODO: If spine/leaf inswitch cache of the pipeidx is NOT full, switchos.popserver sends CACHE_POP_ACK to controller.popserver.popclient_for_spine/leaf, and passes CACHE_POP to switchos.popworker
		* TODO: If spine/leaf inswitch cache of the pipeidx is full, switchos.popserver sends CACHE_POP_FULL_ACK to controller.popserver.popclient_for_spine/leaf

Commit message:

fix some bugs in p4 code of distfarreach; add local/remotesripts to help launch testbed

docs/distnocache.md, after:

# Distributed NoCache 

- Copy from nocache 
- See [important notes](./netreach-v4-lsm.md) in netreach-v4-lsm.md
- See [common implementation details](./distfarreach.md) in distfarreach.md
+ NOTE: we avoid dependency on ingress port; see details in [implementation log after/during DistFarReach](netreach-v4-lsm.md)

## Overview

## Implementation log

+ Implement DistNoCache
	* Copy nocache to distnocache
	* See [distfarrech.md](./distfarreach.md) for changes which are synced to DistNoCache
	* Normal request/response
		- For PUT/DELREQ
			+ Add packet type of DISTNOCACHE_PUT/DELREQ_SPINE (ONLY packet type enumeration) (files: tofino-*/main.p4, tofino-*/common.py, tofino-*/p4src/parser.p4, packet_format.h)
			+ Spine switch converts PUT/DELREQ as DISTNOCACHE_PUT/DELREQ_SPINE to server-leaf (files: tofino-spine/p4src/ingress_mat.p4, tofino-spine/configure/table_configure.py)
			+ Server-leaf switch converts DISTNOCACHE_PUT/DELREQ_SPINE as PUT/DELREQ to server (files: tofino-leaf/p4src/ingress_mat.p4, tofino-leaf/configure/table_configure.py)

## Run

- Hardware configure
	+ Deprecated: DPDK
		* Follow [tech_report](./tech_report.md) to confiure dpdk
	+ Configure after each login
		* `source configure_client.sh`: configure NIC ipv4 address, arp table, UDP rcvbuf size, and openfd limitation
		* `source configure_server.sh`: configure NIC ipv4 address, arp table, UDP rcvbuf size, and openfd limitation
		* `sudo bash configure_switchos.sh`: configure UDP rcvbuf size
	+ Max # of open files
		* `sudo vim /etc/security/limits.conf` to set hard and soft limits on maximum # of open files
		* logout and re-login
		* `ulimit -n number` to set soft # of open files
- Prepare synthetic Zipf workload for loading, warmup, and transaction phase
	+ Modify synthetic-generator/common.py to configure max_key, max_hotkey, and query_num
		+ Update config.ini to configure correct workload name
	+ `python gen_kv.sh` to generate workload for loading phase
		+ `./split_workload load linenum` -> workloada-load-{split_num}/*-*.out
	+ `python gen_warmupkv.sh` to generate workload for warmup phase
	+ `python gen_queries_zipf.sh` to generate Zipf workload for transaction phase
		+ `./split_workload run linenum` -> workloada-run-{server_num}/*.out
- Prepare YCSB workload for loading or transaction phase
	+ For example:
	+ `./bin/ycsb.sh load basic -P workloads/workloada -P netbuffer.dat > workloada-load.out`
	+ `./bin/ycsb.sh run basic -P workloads/workloada -P netbuffer.dat > workloada-run.out`
	+ `./split_workload load linenum` -> workloada-load-{split_num}/\*-\*.out
	+ `./split_workload run linenum` -> workloada-run-{server_num}/\*.out
- Change partition method (hash/range partition)
	+ RANGE_SUPPORT in tofino-*/netbufferv4.p4
	+ USE_HASH/RANGE in helper.h
	+ RANGE_SUPPORT in tofino-*/common.py
- Local loading phase
	- `./loader` to launch loaders in end host
	- If using ycsb, after ycsb loading phase, run `./loadfinish_client` in each physical server
- Warmup/Transaciton phase
	- Spine switch (bf3/bf2; we use bf3 now) and leaf switch (bf1)
		- Run `cd tofino`
		+ Run `su` to enter root account
		+ Run `bash compile.sh` to compile p4 into binary code
		+ Run `bash start_switch.sh` to launch Tofino
	- Maunual way to launch testbed (out-of-date)
		- Launch two switchoses (in spine or leaf switch) in local control plane of Tofino
			+ Create a new terminal and run `bash configure.sh` to configure data plane
		- Launch servers in end host
			+ `./server server_physical_idx`
			+ NOTE: to close server, use `sudo kill -15` to send SIGKILL
	- Automatic way to launch testbed (latest)
		+ In each switch
			* Run `su` to enter root account
			* Run `bash localscripts/launchswitchostestbed.sh` to configure switch
				- Run `bash localscripts/stopswitchostestbed.sh` to stop switch
		+ In client 0 (dl11)
			* Run `bash remotescripts/launchservertestbed.sh` to launch server
				- Run `bash remotescripts/stopservertestbed.sh` to stop server
	- Launch clients in end host
		- Transaction phase: `./remote_client client_physical_idx`
- Server rotation for static workload
	- Use config.ini.rotation-switch-switchos-loading-warmupclient
		+ Start switch and configure data plane
		+ Start clients and servers for loading phase
	- Use config.ini.rotation-transaction
		+ Start clients and servers for transaction phase (repeat 127 times)
		+ Example of 128 server threads
			* 1 server physical num + 1 server total logical num
				- (1) set server0.server_logical_idxes as bottleneck server logical index in config,ini
				- (2) launch bottleneck server thread in server0
				- (3) Run `./remote_client 1` in client 1
				- (4) Run `./remote_client 0` in client 0
				- (5) Record client0's server rotation data of all physical clients into result.out
			* 2 server physical num + 2 server total logical num
				- (1) set server0.server_logical_idxes as bottleneck server logical index in config.ini
				- (2) Change server1.server_logical_idxes (not equal to server0.server_logical_idxes), e.g., from 0 to 1, in config.ini
				- (3) Run `bash test_server_rotation.sh` in client0
				- (4) Record client0's server rotation data of all physical clients into result.out
				- (5) Go back to step (1) until repeating 127 times
	- IMPORTANT: try different # of client threads to sature servers
		+ NOTE: more client threads does not mean better throughput, as client threads have CPU contention overhead
		+ We MUST try different # of client threads to get the best runtime thpt improvement
- Utils scripts
	- Help to update config.ini
		+ gen_logical_idxes: generate server logical indexes from startidx to endidx
	- Help to generate throughput result files
		+ sum_tworows_for_bottleneckserver.py: sum over per-server pktcnts of two clients to find bottleneck partition
		+ sum_twofiles.py: sum over per-server results to get aggregate statistics (NOTE: the two files must have the same content format)
		+ Deprecated (covered by client0.rotationdataserver): gen_rotation_onerow_result.py: generate one row of rotation throughput result files by summing over per-client rotation result line 
	- Analyze throughput result files: dynamic/static/rotation_calculate_thpt.py
	- sync_file.sh: sync one file (filepath relateive to netreach-v4-lsm/) to all other machines
	- ../sync.sh: sync entire netreach-v4-lsm directory to other machines (NOTE: old directory of other machines will be deleted first)

## Simple test

- NOTE: set switch_kv_bucket_num, KV_BUCKET_COUNT, CM_BUCKET_COUNT, HH_THRESHOLD, SEQ_BUCKET_COUNT as 1 before test
- Test cases of normal operations: see directory of "testcases/normal"
	+ Case 1: single read (GETREQ arrives at server)
	+ Case 2: single write (PUTREQ arrives at server)
	+ Case 3: single delete (DELREQ arrives at server)
	+ Case 4: single load (LOADREQ arrives at server)
	+ Case 5: single scan (SCANREQ_SPLIT arrives at server)
- NOTE: no testcases for cache population/eviction/hit and crash-consistent snapshot

## Deprecated staff

+ DEPRECATED design for cache population/eviction in DistFarReach
	* NOTE: DistFarReach triggers cache population by servers -> key of CACHE_POP must NOT be cached -> key MUST be cached at most ONCE and hence in at most ONE switch
	* NOTE: to keep stateless controller, controller sends CACHE_POP_ACK to server only if receive CACHE_POP_ACK from spine/leaf, which means that some switchos.popworker has performed cache population/eviction for the key
		- TODO: server sends CACNE_POP to controller by server.popclient
			+ NOTE: wait time for CACHE_POP_ACK in distributed scenario becomes larger than single-switch -> using server.popclient can avoid from affecting server.worker performance for normal requests
			+ TODO: Now we still use server.worker.popclient instead of server.popclient as cache eviction is rare compared with normal requests
	* controller.popserver receives CACHE_POP from server.popclient
		- controller.popserver calculates logical spineswitchidx based on the key to find physical spine switch
			+ NOTE: as we only have one physical spine switch, we validate the logical spineswitchidx
		- TODO: controller.popserver.popclient_for_spine forwards CACHE_POP to switchos.popserver of corresponding spine switch
		- TODO: controller.popserver.popclient_for_spine waits for CACHE_POP_ACK / CACHE_POP_FULL_ACK
		- TODO: If receive CACHE_POP_ACK from spine switch, controller.popserver forwards CACHE_POP_ACK to server.popclient, and waits for next CACHE_POP from server.popclient
		- If receive CACHE_POP_FULL_ACK from spine switch
			+ controller.popserver calculates logical leafswitchidx based on the key to find physical server-leaf
				* NOTE: as we only have one physical leaf switch, we validate the logical leafswitchidx
			+ TODO: controller.popserver.popclient sends CACHE_POP to switchos.popserver of corresponding phyiscal leaf
			+ TODO: controller.popserver.popclient waits for CACHE_POP_ACK / CACHE_POP_FULL_ACK
			+ TODO: If receive CACHE_POP_ACK from leaf switch, controller.popserver forwards CACHE_POP_ACK to server.popclient, and waits for next CACHE_POP from server.popclient
			+ If receive CACHE_POP_FULL_ACK from leaf switch
				* NOTE: we do NOT need to find global victim by CACHE_POP_GETVICTIMs; instead, we still use sampling to reduce cache pop latency
				* TODO: controller.popserver.popclient samples one switch from spine/leaf and sends CACHE_POP_FULL w/ new key to sampled switch
				* TODO: controller receives CACHE_POP_ACK from sampled switch, and forwards it to server.popclient
	* For each physical spine/leaf switchos, after receiving CACHE_POP from controller.popserver.popclient
		- TODO: switchos.popserver checks inswitch cache size first
			+ TODO: Maintain a mutex lock for switchos_cached_empty_index
			+ TODO: If the current switch is not full, switchos.popserver sends CACHE_POP_ACK to controller.popserver.popclient, and pass CACHE_POP w/ new key to switchos.popworker for cache population
			+ TODO: If the current switch is full, switchos.popserver sends CACHE_POP_FULL_ACK to controller.popserver.popclient, yet NOT pass CACHE_POP w/ new key to switchos.popworker for cache population
	* For each physical spine/leaf switchos, after receiving CACHE_POP_FULL from controller.popserver.popclient
		- TODO: switchos.popserver directly sends CACHE_POP_ACK w/ new key to controller.popserver.popclient, and pass CACHE_POP_FULL w/ new key to switchos.popworker for cache eviction
		- TODO: NOTE: CACHE_POP_FULL is inherited from CACHE_POP
		- TODO: NOTE: switchos_cached_empty_index must be full
+ DEPRECATED implementation of cache population/eviction in DistFarReach
	+ TODO: controller.popsever.popclient_for_spine forwards CACHE_POP to spine.switchos.popserver and waits for CACHE_POP/_FULL_ACK (files: controller.c)
		* NOTE: controller needs to communiate with both spine/leaf switchos -> need two sets of global variables; while reflector/switchos can update exclusive global variables based on its role (spine or leaf)
		* TODO: Add packet type of CACHE_POP_FULL_ACK (files: tofino-*/main.p4, tofino-*/common,py, tofino-*/p4src/parser.p4, packet_format.*, common_impl.h)
	+ spine/leafswitchos.popserver processes CACHE_POP from controller.popserver.popclient_for_spine/leaf
		* TODO: Add mutex lock for inswitch cache metadata (writer: switchos.popworker; reader: switchos.popsever/snapshotserver) (files: switchos.c)
		* TODO: switchos.popserver gets pipeidx based on role (spineswitchos -> leafswitch.pipeidx; leafswitchos -> server.pipeidx)
		* TODO: If spine/leaf inswitch cache of the pipeidx is NOT full, switchos.popserver sends CACHE_POP_ACK to controller.popserver.popclient_for_spine/leaf, and passes CACHE_POP to switchos.popworker
		* TODO: If spine/leaf inswitch cache of the pipeidx is full, switchos.popserver sends CACHE_POP_FULL_ACK to controller.popserver.popclient_for_spine/leaf
